## Blog Post 4

In this blog post we are going to talk about spectral clustering. We will demonstrate how to create spectral clustering in a couple of steps. 

### Introduction

First, we will talk about clustering. Clustering is splitting the data into meaningful groups. We can use machine learning algorithms like K-means to perform such tasks. By importing Kmeans from the `sklearn.cluster` package. 

K-Means generates circular clusters but if the data is a crescent we cannot use K-means. Therefore, we will need spectral clustering to perform the task. 

### Part A

We will first create a similarity matrix A with shape (n,n) and use a parameter `epsilon`.  

```
# 2d matrix with shape (n,n)
n = 5
X = np.random.random(size = (n, n))
X
````


Then, we should compute the pairwise distances and create an appropriate matrix using `pairwise_distances` function from the `sklearn`  package.

```
#use pairwise_distance function to compute all pairwise distances
epsilon = 0.4
dm = pairwise_distances(X)
dm
````


The coordinates of the matrix should be equal to 1 if the distance between `X[i]` and `X[j]` is smaller than or equal to `epsilon`, and otherwise 0.

We should assign the matrix's coordinates 1 or 0 according to the pairwise distance. 

All the diagonal entries of A[i,i] should be equal to 0. In order to to that, we will use the `np.fill_diagonal` function.


```
#for-loop to define whether i,j are within distance of epsilon,
#if so equal to 1
A = np.ones_like(X,dtype=float) 
for i in range(n):
    for j in range(n):
        if (dm[i,j])**2 <= epsilon**2:
            A[i,j]=1
        else:
            A[i,j]=0
#use fill_diagonal function to set the values of A[i,i] equal to zero
np.fill_diagonal(A,0)
A
```

### Part B

For the next part, we will cluster the data points according to their rows and columns. We assume that there are two clusters $C_0$ or $C_1$ and the data points are in either one of them. the term `y[i]` describes the label point of `i`.

The *binary norm cut objective* of a matrix $\mathbf{A}$ is the function 

$$N_{\mathbf{A}}(C_0, C_1)\equiv \mathbf{cut}(C_0, C_1)\left(\frac{1}{\mathbf{vol}(C_0)} + \frac{1}{\mathbf{vol}(C_1)}\right)\;.$$


There are two functions in this equation: `cut` and `vol`. And we will have to write these functions. 

#### The cut function:


The function `cut(A,y)` computes the cut term for the number of nonzero entries in A that connect the two clusters.

```
def cut(A,y):
    for i in range(n):
        for j in range(n):
            #point i element of cluster c1 if y[i]=1
            if y[i]== 1:
                #row i of A
                return sum([sum(i) for i in A])
            else:
                return sum([sum(j) for j in A])
```

#### The volume function:

The function `vols(A,y)` will compute the volumes of the two clusters and return it as a tuple. The volume function refers to how big the clusters are. 

```
def vols(A,y):
    v0= size(y[i]==1)
    v1 = size(y[j]==0)
    return v0, v1
```

#### The normcut function:

In order to find the binary norm cut objective, we will write another function called `normcut`. The `normcut` function uses both the cut and volume terms to compute the objective. 

```
def normcut(A,y):
    #compute the binary norm cut objective
    return cut(A,y)@((1/vols(A,y))+(1/vols(A,y))
```

### Part C


```python

```
